welcome everyone to this week's IPL
desync meeting a maybe 18 2020 and as
every week we go over the stuff that
we've done in the past week and then
this has open issues we might have or
yeah answer questions and so on and I
need to open the egg paid and yeah I so
I start with myself what I've done and
we'll do so on the rest I put aside just
a link to there is another
implementation of rust IPL D which is
kind of interesting because it's using
survey for civilization which but from
talking to the person who did it it's
really done in a good way so I'm still
need to check it out more closely but
it's just a bit of a different approach
and yeah feel free to check it out I
would have definitely have a close look
at it and other than that I haven't done
much iPad work the past week mostly time
FICO and stuff and other things and bad
as promised for Chris I've looked into
the graph seeing stuff and what the
state is so currently there's really as
far as I could tell it has only stuff
going on early in the rust world and
also there seems to be more parties
interested but now it really boils down
to the chain safe the people that wrote
on the rust fight when a permutation
called forest work on worked on
selectors and now move on to working on
grafting so there will be a rustic
plantation of crafts ink and then on the
transcripts that I haven't or anything
so yeah so that's basically it so it
started as so many people excited and
wanted to do something and now it's
basically just the one
imitation and it seems yes but of course
if I hear anything else I will update
you on this one
but it might be still interesting to
check out check out with the with those
folks because they probably would also
find issues or interesting things or
yeah I expected also perhaps even the
spec might change if we have an
implementation of it
we'll see can I ask a question about
that
yes yeah hi so I'm okay with like
jumping in on the rust crab sink efforts
or these monitoring and so if there's a
stand-up meeting or weekly sink meeting
that I can join that possible or is that
private or what then there is no beading
so it's like we just like because like
may do they consider it on five coins so
therefore they so they are not so that
they are not interested in integrating
it into I profess they only do the fight
when stuff so I hope that for example
[Music]
eager for matrix is interested in ipfs
and I think he is but I haven't heard
back from him yet so I hope that
basically he will kind of look outward
and see like how are you laser ipfs and
make sure that it also works there but I
don't know I can tell us so do you only
really think that is happening is that
chance if people and they basic just do
it so and if they have questions they
just ask random people and that's mostly
it there isn't really any like
structured way of dealing with it yeah
yeah they're gonna open source their
graphs think about relations that close
source no like did they work in the open
so also like all this stuff is open so
is there a link to the Reaper you can
provide yeah so that's gonna work I can
put it in the notes and so it's just
like on their on their fiber invitation
so it's not the separately repository
but just on their fyke white stuff I
will put it in explains why
I might not be adding a ton of meetings
to the process around it they're doing
with this one very specific goal in this
one repo like well maybe there's okay I
mean I that's really helpful to know
where things are at it almost seems like
I need to kind of look at this and a
little bit but I guess Volker if people
come back around and you know are trying
to do more with graphs Sinkin ipfs or
whatever you'll let me know I'm
interested in helping out I just don't
know I don't know how much progress I'm
I think I myself without anyone else to
talk to so I don't know if you saw some
of these discussions and IRC general
lately but we did have a bunch where I
think it was someone from that same
project is also really worried about
making sure you have test fixtures come
out of the selectors part which is one
of the big prerequisite steps towards
graphing and I don't remember if we got
those pulled out into another repo yet
or if they're just ready to but there's
a bunch of nice JSON spec files that we
talked through that have like super
literal vectors for defining what the
selectors should do so I'm really
excited about those if they're not
another repo yet you can maybe copy
paste them and no no poke that person
and IRC more I'm planning to retrofit a
bunch of the going tests to use those as
well because they're it's a better
format than the handle tests I've got
right now so okay thank you small
victories okay should I just continue
that yeah it was just no I hope the Sun
is what's just because that's the link
to the repository of the test vectors
yeah yeah yeah okay yeah so please go on
Eric any safe slash I can be test
something it's off my screen area but
yeah that's cool and good that that
exists so I don't have a ton more to
report for my self this week other than
discussions like that continuing and
being really awesome
technical things to worry about lately
so that's been fun go uphill be prime is
starting to sprout and change long
document now knowledge it's probably
well overdue before there's enough tag
releases now that I don't remember what
they mean so I'm starting to take notes
and also put some accumulated plan to
changes in they're trying to be a little
more intentional about racking up the
changes that are going to require any
sort of refactored from consumers before
I just throw them out so this document
is gonna be at least for now but the
place for those trees I and yeah that's
about it thanks I'm doing too many
things at the same time and oh I see
things from Johnny cool yeah how do you
also so I've been working on C bore
ordered a taxi board and specifically
signing things with COEs a so super
signing and so I think I put a link in
here with what I'm working on with the
di D at the decentralized identifiers
specification so I use IP LD on IP ID so
IP ideas basically publishing the that
the IP LD as a specific formatted
document which akise includes the key
that cryptographic keys to the IP NS
namespace and then that basically is
formatted did : IP ID : and the hash to
the public key which is basically now
your identifier and so there's a whole
bunch of work going on as far as mostly
about resolving between different did
methods and I of course think that you
know dag c4 aka
IP LD is a superior method but actually
I needed to get it into the did core
specification so I have a active pull
request and mostly centered around
what's a native see poor representation
and then really a more specific dag see
more representation which is IP LD and
the only issue I really have right now
is with and I mentioned this before
months ago is that way
you strip away all the other tags other
than tag 42 then it disrupts the
abilities to do see board it's cozy
tag 98 signing with semantic types
embedded in the tags and I'm I'm still
kind of struggling with us there's
probably ways around this with just
basically signing things other than
decks Ybor and not using tags but I if
you get a chance to do please read my
pull request and I'd love any feedback
this builds upon what I was working on
with that paper for the rebooting of a
trust that never happened in Argentina
if you're making a new codec entirely
you could set up entirely new rules as
well it doesn't have to be Dec Zeebo
it could be de Jose with a relationships
taxi board but different rules about
tags yeah I think we actually mentioned
that a few weeks ago which is basically
like yeah so and actually I think there
may have been a Comeau a codec for cozy
in the works some you've got you know so
though they were merged in the table I
think would they
I'm vocal so we have taxi boat to take
that coaster
yes ah perfect okay that's what I need
yeah so if I join the call that wasn't
you though was it Johnny it was someone
else so they overlap its here I think
there are I know so the three box people
actually are also picking up on this
idea of dag signing dag Seaguar with
cosy and so I've been seeing a lot of
that so and that comes out of like so
the previous reboot name of the trust I
actually talked about IP OD as being the
native format and how we actually do
this and Christian muds Fitz and I
actually wrote a paper together from the
Toronto meeting and that's I think
migrated into three box
yeah so there is now codec for peg cozy
and they chose you or however you
pronounce them so for the Seaboard in
touch is one yeah that's perfect that's
exactly right needed we don't have any
specs for those things yet so but I
guess yeah so if anyone wants to because
I guess it's so as I understood it's
basically mostly de sibour
plus this additional hey bonus probably
rhetoric yeah but as so as rotten
mentioned you can come up with anything
so you could for example also allow all
other things as well oh yeah and then
the write-up I actually just basically
just spelled out see bore and the
semantic types for tagging but then
beneath that actually added a section as
far as dag see bar being a more
constrained flavor of Seaborg and I
think I specifically I spelled out all
the constraints for instance keys can't
be integers they could only be strings
deterministic ordering in the
representation and an only using tagged
42 for it to be dag see war but I would
love to make sure I'm not missing
anything as far as I know floating
points can only be it was a bit 64 that
encoded and so I just if you could give
it a read over to make sure I didn't
miss any harder constraints that
actually would make it specific for dag
see more floating points a tricky
because we have two different rules at
the moment that we need to define and I
think if I just said that if you
basically we just say all floating point
will be 64 bit I think that takes care
of it but let me know if that's not the
case it's it so it doesn't at the moment
because javascript will do small as
possible and go will do 64 bit that's
that's a discrepancy we have to resolve
with deck Seymour
and we haven't figured we haven't
decided which way we're gonna fall on
that yet um because it's really odd we
do not actually believe that it's
correct just so that's clear that's
putting it at all okay so yeah we right
now basically the recommendation with
dag see boys don't make floats which is
spikes I think that did documents don't
require floats it actually it's very
much just cryptographic key material and
I think it really it's not gonna be that
urgent for me to figure that out
but I think if I actually have something
that basically for the time being sticks
that I think would be give me far enough
along that I should get sticker actually
it so it depends on what language are
you doing this in I mostly go and rust
yeah I probably for now stick to the the
go version of 64-bit and I guess we'll a
little remember to lube you in if we
make a decision that goes a different
way on that better I try to make a
decision just switched to the Nvidia new
stuff and you know equal in convenience
ready baby the new new flood format from
Nvidia actually spawn exactly I ran into
that too I'm doing some machine learning
stuff and NVIDIA I have an older cards
and so that actually like automatically
converted to 32 base and Inter totally
screw me up okay yeah is yep I think I'm
just gonna take one one note here and
get this out of my head I'm trying to
recall the highlights of what I wanted
to talk about today
okay so so I've been doing this Bitcoin
thing and I keep on as I progress I keep
on thinking what is this all for gonna
consume this but it's it's for archival
purposes really it's it's to say we can
take the Bitcoin blockchain and preserve
it in a you know in a form in a content
addressed form forever and so that means
that this is not just a project to let's
make something that is practical we have
to make it practical across the entire
blockchain so I I've done that but I
keep on as I process the entire
blockchain I keep on finding unicorns
that break that expose and then breaks
assumptions that I've made and and
there's some some tricky ones in there
that have been that I'm having to make
decisions on that I wouldn't mind some
backup on because there's there's a lot
of sort of philosophical stuff here
about content addressing that I feel
like I need and I need to have some mind
share with so that and the first the
first first main thing is why why pull
it apart at all
so Bitcoin blocks our content addressed
in the sense that you address these
blocks by a hash and then you can look
them up in their system by the hash but
the the hash only I don't know is it's
only a pure hash it's a double char to
256 of the first 80 bytes that's all of
these and then you have this internal
dag structure within the block itself
where that any 80 bytes contains a hash
of this binary Merkle tree which hashes
the transactions
there is there is an approach you could
take where you could say that the the
Bitcoin block construction is a hash and
that's what we're going to call the hash
function and so that that top-level hash
even though it might be a char to 256 we
could say well it's actually a Bitcoin
hash and that it mat hashes the entire
block so that's one approach you could
say but it doesn't seem to be
satisfactory because that really
stretches the limits of what we would
call a hash function but you know what
is a hash function we went through this
recently we're looking at some stuff for
file clean as well what is the house for
patch function what are the boundaries
of what you call hash functions so so if
we take the approach of saying let's
let's say we want to pull this apart
into content address chunks where the
content address is it comprises the
double Shire to 256 hash of the chunk
which you can do because Bitcoin uses
that to address these chunks it does
internally if you it uses that same
algorithm to dress all these chunks so
this is a standard Bitcoin block the
old-fashioned simple version of the
Bitcoin block where you would have the
header which is addressed so you can
pull that out as a piece and then you've
got this this IPL D like structure of
this tree where you eat one links to
another one so it's it's a merkel in the
sense that this thing links to all the
other pieces of itself in a contained
unit and so the head of links to this
binary miracle tree root and then in
there or you traverse the nodes then you
get to the the base of it which it
contains these transaction IDs which the
wg6 hash of the individual transactions
and and so you can traverse that the the
block itself but Bitcoin blocks in their
binary form don't store
all that tree intermediate structure
it's implicit because all the bytes are
there you can reverse-engineer it so
that it's there but what I'm doing is
treating them as blocks and so I'm
creating blocks for them and then
storing them and they you know 64 bytes
long because the two hashes put together
and so I've got this tree of 64 byte
chunks and then you can actually
navigate it with IP LD tooling you can
treat it just like it I could do with
every other IP LD thing except it's not
it's not our normal dag form so you
can't like sort arbitrary types in there
but you can decode this thing into the
same sort of structure that you would
for our building so there's this there's
a bunch of assumptions packed into that
that I'm happy for energy to attack but
that's that's the top level then
segwayed came along and mess things up
because segue was addressing this issue
of people were using the witness data
inside transactions to modify
transactions in a way that wasn't
healthy for mining people were abused
basically abusing the structure so they
said well let's let's remove the witness
data from this top level and let's pack
it into another structure and and in
practical terms what that means is that
the block is the same sort of but it
internally contains a different content
address structure if you were to
decompose it and what we end up with is
is this where we've got two internal
binary Merkle trees so we've still got
the first one but the first one only
only hashes the transactions with our
witness data so to make that first
merkel structure and get the TX mochel
root you take all the transactions
remove the witness data from them hash
them and then you get their TX ID and
that's the TX ID that you see if you
were to go to a blockchain Explorer and
search for a particular transaction you
could use that TX ID it's that first
level one but then the witness data is
attached
and it's done by hashing the
transactions with the witness data and
then that's the transaction hash so they
got TX ID and TX hash two different
things
ones with witness ones without witness
not every transaction in a block will
have will have witness data so those two
things will be the same for a number of
transactions and over time more and more
transactions have witness data so we see
divergence more and more so what you do
if to create this structure where that
both of these trees are implicit in the
block that if we pull them out and
create separate IP LD blocks for them
then you get this double structure where
to get to the second one you have to go
through the first transaction the
coinbase and in there there's this
little field that contains a 38 byte
string that is prefixed by a special six
bytes and then the remaining 32 bytes is
a hash and that hash is of the heading
of this second structure which is not
quite the head of the merkel root but it
also contains a piece this nonce that
when you reconstruct the binary form of
the block that non-sexually gets
reattached to the coin base so the coin
base itself if you were to hash it twice
with and without witness data it would
have different hashes because it has
witnessed utter in the form of this
nonce and because because that's the
sort of self referential thing the coin
base doesn't appear in this second
Merkle tree so you can see the first
entry here is just a null hat which is
just zeros so the coin base makes an
appearance once but it does have witness
data which you have to retrieve from
here and then some of the transactions
there full-form can only be addressed
from the bottom of this Merkel tree but
others will make an appearance of both
so once transactions that don't have
witnessed on it will make an appearance
their TX ID and their hash are the same
so they'll make an appearance in both of
these merkel structures
and that which also means that you'll
have some repetition in the internal
blocks of that binary Merkle tree so you
can see I've labeled these blocks here 6
& 6 are the same because it's just a
it's the same thing so so you do get
this compaction that happens by
repeating these parts of the structure
so that's the that's the that's the
that's what happens when you try and
decompose Bitcoin into content address
structures where you are unwilling to
say that the Bitcoin block encoding
algorithm itself is a hash function
which works so I have this all working
and I am decomposing although the
blockchain into these things and mostly
it works great but it turns out that
there's a bunch of unicorns which break
assumptions so interesting ones I've
encountered so far that I'm having to
deal with that do undermine some of this
approach one of them is the this little
38 byte string in the coin base that
says ah this is a sigrid block you're
gonna have to navigate to this other
other binary Merkle tree to get the real
form of some of the transactions that
does make an appearance pritus prior to
secret because it's not a non-standard
string it was used some would say abused
in some transactions and they appear
before segue so you can find that string
in blocks that are not segments so when
you're when you are parsing out these
chunks so a new pond you you you
navigate so what I do is when I'm if I'm
recomposing an entire Bitcoin block I
will navigate from the header to the TX
poker all the way down the left side of
that binary miracle tree get the coin
base and say do is this a secret block
if it is then I'm gonna go and get all
the transactions from the second merkel
structure
than the first because I know that at
the base there the the full form of each
will be there but when you get to the
coin base and you decode it and you get
and you get a a IPL deformer with with a
CID to this witness commitment thing
there are blocks where it will create a
CID that points to nothing because it's
not it doesn't exist and there's no way
of knowing when you're decoding whether
that thing exists or not the only way to
know is to try and load it from wherever
you're storing these things say we're
storing a mean ipfs you would do this
traversal you get to the coin base it
would present this witness commitment
thing to you
and you and then you would have to say
okay let's try and load it from the ipfs
Network and if it doesn't load okay if
it doesn't load it's probably not a
sacred pot block if it does load then
definitely is but that puts the onus on
the loading mechanism to fail properly
for you and not just that that block
happened to not exist in the ipfs in the
way I'm storing these things they will
exist so we'll be like I know that all
the things exist I'm putting these
things together but that doesn't that's
not guaranteed in a distribution
mechanism that they will exist so the
signal for how these things are
structured depends on whether you can
load this thing or not sorry naka and I
have a question to you then so because
if you then find out it's not a sacred
block but there's a transaction with
this ID right so if you if you then
loaded with the CID of the transaction
and you get it back you know that it's
there was a transaction not a sacred
block has said sorry as sacred with this
commitment thing even if the hash points
to something else I mean so you so you
basically do requests with the city of
sacred because it has the prefix
yeah and then you have some time out and
then you tried again getting a
transaction banking now so this because
because this the thing is it doesn't
point to Merkel route so I can
differentiate it this thing here like
although in here I've got three
different multi codecs we've got the
header which is we're going Bitcoin
block the transactions and the inner
parts of these binary Merkle trees we're
calling Bitcoin transaction and but but
then the thing that the coin base points
to is something different it's called
the witness commitment and so I'm
storing them as as multi codec witness
commitment yes and and and that means
that when I do the load it's only of the
CID is encoded with witness commitment
it's not a Bitcoin block Bitcoin
transaction so it has to be of type
witness commitment for it to
successfully load so that limits the
range of what other things are confined
so it's it's a binary exists or not yes
yes but if you so basically you try to
retrieve it and you don't get anything
back the problem is you don't know if
it's if you couldn't retrieve it or it's
not there that's the that's a problem
yeah but you know when you created the
CID for the witness commitment you could
also create a CID of the transaction
because if so and then try to retrieve
the transaction and if this transaction
exists then it wasn't a witness
commitment no you can't sadly okay it's
because it's a bit the biggest challenge
here is that they in the binary forms
the the hash and transaction ID date
don't make appearances because you
hatching hash oh it's off itself so you
can't just construct a CID out of
nowhere you've got a constructor with
the information you have and all we have
is this little bit of information what
you do though if it fails if you get to
the coin base you try and load the
witness commit
and it fails you just back up and say
okay let's assume this is not a sacred
block we'll go back to the top of that
other binary merkel resolve all the
other transactions from there and you'll
get the you will be able to load the the
poor form of all the transactions the
non witness form of all the transactions
which might piece of like it's not that
that's insufficient that they contain a
lot of information they contain all the
coin values and and public keys and
stuff it's you're just missing a bit of
information okay so what happens the
secrets still like it could happen that
you you are for witness commitment link
basically you can't load it because it
exists but you tune the summaries you
can and then you go back try to load the
transaction into it and it will succeed
although there is a witness commitment
so almost seems like you need branching
logic for actually the scheme
representation at the pinch is
representing the data model and this is
where like in the w3c they love an
algorithmic approach they describe it in
the abstract
he's like json-ld parsing with rdf
normalization algorithm is basically
just a four-step parsing algorithm and
so you need like an adjacent scheme you
actually can basically do like you know
if this field exists then actually it
means to be in this format or like these
are the optional enumeration types are
we doing anything as in IPL d to
actually that either the scheme
representations actually the the
scaffolding to build it upon but then is
there like branching logic like a K like
JSON schema have so there isn't in a
purely schema because that's built in
it's the the the challenge here not
maybe if there's another thing I have
been covered which is we're trying to
encode these things in in the their byte
format so that the for start the block
ID matches what the Bitcoin blockchain
uses so we don't want to modify these
bytes and then the transaction ID is the
same so you can take a block ID from the
web somewhere 0 0 0 0 0 la la and you
can turn that eat that into a CID and
then resolve these and
same for the transaction ladies you can
take them from the web anywhere else up
make you know maybe you're querying the
blockchain
oh I'll crew that in you know PLD and I
have the ability don't I'll query it
there so we're not making up new ID so
we have to use the raw byte format that
Bitcoin users which means we can't
insert any of any other useful
information here that would make a
branch herbal schemer so this may be
actually to generate it actually is
there a schema that actually you could
do that does actually have multi-step
algorithmic approach then because yeah I
that would be nice but I'd you know the
merge to generate this stuff it's all I
might it's all just hand the hand coded
logic that is just getting out of
control because of these unicorns okay
fine yeah I was basically going to ask
is the problem really that the scam the
schema signaling in Bitcoin is
essentially taken by the height of the
blockchain
so yeah miss universe from this height
down use this other schema and from this
height up use this the the current good
schema and in a better future height
will have yet another scheme and I'll
tell plz you actually don't have an
ability to say that kind of thing we
only have does it part it's good
it doesn't parse then it's a difference
claim yeah yeah yeah you right and and
the height information is not backed
into the blocks so we can't use that
when we put these blocks independent of
each other there is a time in there
which you could use as a signal but I
don't think that's a reliable mechanism
there's no there's not really there's
not very firm rules about times although
that's something I haven't investigated
very deeply but you could actually use
if time was more rigorously applied then
you could use time as a signaling
mechanism yeah I think the time
specificity is only about 90 minutes and
so I it could you
she can have it's not bad ordered yeah
yeah actually actually have unordered
blocks is actually plenty of turn up of
blocks that actually are out of order
time series why because actually you
allow up to 90 minutes for a
reconciliation so one approach I thought
of when I first encountered this was I I
thought this is okay this is this really
is a unicorn there's going to be like
one or two by two blocks with this
because I hadn't know I got through
three down 300,000 block before I
account and encountered this this
problem of the witness commitment
looking like it exists but didn't and so
I thought well mainly in my like when I
specify this because I'll make I'll
write up this stuff in documentation and
say this is the IP LD Bitcoin format and
this is how we do it and by the way
there is a white list of coinbase
identifiers that if you encounter these
then they have a special case and you
could use just the hashes like you could
list you know four or five hashes and
say these are special unicorns they
exist in history we're putting them
aside now cuz we're posts a grid and
these are special ones if you encounter
them and you've got special handling I
still still interested in that in in
looking at that approach but it's
turning out of there's more than I
thought of these blocks yeah and so in
json-ld world there's actually such a
thing as jason framing and i think there
is where basically you have the
scaffolding of a document that actually
things that must be there but then i
think there was a branching logic that
says if these things are here you know
then you follow this path right yeah
well within an IP all these gamers we
have unions which help us do that and
then but then they also the concept is
baked in that you should be able to
apply different schema IP le scheme as
the intention is that they will be
quickly verifiable because their block
local and they you don't require too
much processing and so you should be
able to quickly try different schemas to
find out but this is this is not a dag
seaboard deck jason dag anything we
don't have that fun here
so as I correctly understanding that
part of the problem also is this
information it must have been used
inconsistently some part of this block
of information in the history of Bitcoin
as like as humans actually wielded it
right so you've got this that was
reserved in the blocks earlier in time
and it was used it must contain nonsense
data or are we like encountering blocks
where people like try to put low bit
rate selfies into the Bitcoin or
something I remember hearing stories
about this yes so what this this little
witness commitment goes into a field in
the in their script and it follows an OP
return which is meant to make that that
end of that that's an end of a script
ASM and but it's possible to put stuff
after the Opera turn which is nonsense
and so that's where people would embed
things in they could say okay opera turn
but I'm gonna put some bytes after that
and that contains my fun stuff sake when
they said for segment they said okay if
you find an opera turn plus 32 bytes
that 32 bytes is a witness commitment
but it turns out that people were
inserting 32 bytes after I returned
you're not trying to specify a decoding
in a schema for something that was well
designed it's more like if this was like
website certificates we would be looking
at a situation where somebody had
discovered the encoding bugs where you
can put information after a null
terminator and some implementations are
finer things so hard and peanuts exactly
this and then somebody else wrote back
that uses it even more with different
semantics than ever before and they just
pushed it yeah what we're seeing is is
implications I was thinking is the
implications of a desire not to make a
hard fork this is what happens if you
want to do a soft fork and
it's all backwards compatible that's
what Segway is even though every minor
now handled sacred it was never a hard
fork and it was this is this is this is
what happened I think Peters
identification also that bitcoin is de
facto using the block height as part of
versioning here I think that observation
is super true so I don't know how low
it's literally true it's in the code
layers they block height in the code
that's wrong if after this height in
this yeah this this literally how it
works they act like they literally have
the schema based on your block right
that's not backed into the blocks right
is this one of the reasons why in
reality you still have to clone the
entire Bitcoin chain in order to reason
about it is this why yes so otherwise
otherwise you have to trust the actual
the actual software downloaded that it
has baked in a number of check points
from the blockchain like actual IDs and
it says yeah yeah from from from there
on like earlier than this ID we're good
but if you actually wants to verify that
your software isn't you know being
screwed with you have to start from the
Genesis block all the way up and there's
a bunch bunch of other information that
is useful that you can only get from
having the entire chain you know this
information about individual blocks that
you can only garner by having all the
blocks up to that block thankfully
that's not a ton of data but I have in
my all my unit tests I have to remove a
fixed list of fields that you can't that
don't you cannot derive from the blocks
by themselves but right this is what I'm
finding is this is this address this
this a this exercise is really helpful
in figuring out some things not to do
I'm really finding this valuable and
it's also but it's also really
challenging some of the core assumptions
like this thing of okay why don't we
just called the block algorithm a hash
function so I don't know we mentioned
time briefly earlier and the granularity
might be kind of quiet sure but it is is
it plausible in practice and knowing
that the thing that Bitcoin officially
does with the block height is also
wildly impure and it's a bit silly right
so the bar for sanity here is really is
low granularity time good enough that we
can actually use it as a heuristic for
this thing and document that's what
we're doing and go with it because
that's something else can check yeah
yeah like unless time stamps are
completely erratic random numbers that
nobody validates in any way which is
possible if they have any Stricker to
them at all then I would think it is
also de facto true the same as the block
height is encoded as true for this that
beyond some date on the wall clock that
we've all roughly agreed on even if it
swings by ninety minutes even if it
swings by like a day there should be
some line where we can draw where you
know a significant number of clients of
the blockchain started considering this
32 byte construction to be magical and
after that day we should not see any
more Lousiana corners that are rule
breakers yep that's definitely something
I probably should check because I have
the village to it it does assume that
there will be no that future blocks will
have no ability to make wild times
because perhaps some future incarnation
of bit of the algorithm will say yeah
we've decided this time field doesn't
really matter so you can use it for
variation in mining like they like
they've done that with a version the
version string now so miners are
starting to abuse the version string
because Bitcoin only takes the last five
bits of it and so that was saying ah
well we've got these three bits at the
front we
very so so version numbers in Bitcoin
blocks are wild unless you consider only
the last five bits it's fascinating the
things people abused when you give them
the freedom if they've got it's really
strict algorithm and they're being found
because there's economic incentives yeah
I just want to bring it back just a
little bit to what Eric said that this
is kinda like breaking with the spirit
of Merkle trees it doesn't really
because the schema is defined on the
entire dag which starts from the root
and that is completely deterministic in
fact this how they rolled it out it was
like their greatest software and in the
end in each Bitcoin node there was a
switch in the future at some date that
wasn't known at the time but basically
at this height you start treating the
seg with that as something else so and
it is yeah we're not I am pretending a
little bit here that these things are in
isolation but the header points to the
previous block so the dag is the entire
chain yeah and this basic point I'm
trying to make the way they are actually
using the blockchain is correct they
basically had one more switch for the
schema type that we currently don't have
but bitcoins not only thing that will
have this going forward because well the
abilities the thing isn't no no isn't
that sort of taking their the wrong way
though so like if you've got a patch
that starts you off with a dag that's
very very large like you've got it at
the tip of the current and it covers
everything then that reasoning holds
just fine but isn't the sort of a
problem where if you take a tip that was
quite old but you don't know that right
you have no magical knowledge of this
you can't you can get that knowledge you
can't know if you traverse all the way
back in time and then you can assess all
the hype right but what if you only have
information
from back in time then you still have
you can still generate the height from
that point the height is always
discoverable it's part of your dag
basically if you have a complete bag
from a certain point you can figure out
how high this point is yeah anyway shall
I continue because I have a couple more
of these unicorns yeah yeah okay so
something and so this approach wasn't I
didn't come up with his approach of
saying let's let's decompose in these
this this implicit binary Merkle into
actual blocks so that we can navigator
as it's separate blocks this this is
this is in this is in an original go IP
LD codec that Jeremy and some others
have used have written and and so the
idea is that you have you navigate to
this binary Merkle
there are all these blocks are labeled
Bitcoin TX because you don't know and
you can't know whether this thing will
be a real transaction or another node in
this binary merkel you only know once
you get there and so labeling them all
Bitcoin TX Mata codec does make sense so
what you do is you navigate in and you
resolve a block you get the block out
and you use the size to tell you whether
it's a an inner node in this tree or
whether it's the real transaction if
it's 64 bytes exactly ah then it's two
hashes jammed together
I can then and then that's your schema
and then you will say okay I return then
an array of to see IDs that's that's
that that's how you do deserialize 64
byte things and if you get anything
other than 64 bytes you do serialize it
as a transaction format
and so you can do that really nicely you
load these blocks and you signal on the
length of them it turns out though as I
discovered yesterday that there are
transactions which decode which which in
encode into a binary form of 64 bytes
very small transactions but they're
exactly the same length of these as
these inner merkel nodes so then then we
have this scheme a problem of okay it's
do it
I can't just switch on lengths I have to
actually start decoding these things and
see if they decode properly so tell
whether it's a transaction or not which
is possible but then there's another
problem which is that there are a number
of these blocks which start with enough
zeros that they will successfully decode
and one of these merkel inner merkel
nodes as a transaction and and the
common one is this series number 17 here
they start with 32 zeros and that will
decode you a successful transaction that
is basically empty which sucks so then
so then the branching logic is okay can
does it decode yes
okay well let's have a look inside and
sanity check it because maybe it
contains version zero and all of the
structures are zero length if so that is
that is almost certainly not a
transaction and probably an inner merkel
node it's a branch on that now I haven't
processed all that blockchain to know
whether that is successful because maybe
there's another unicorn out there which
is a transaction that has version zero
and no arrays which I don't think is
possible because the the coin base has
to exist universes we've talked about
transactions but I think in transactions
you have to have a flow of coins you
have to have an in and an out
and these things are arrays so you have
to have at least one element arrays
except in the Genesis block another even
the Genesis Fox has in it in and out so
I think that's a successful enough check
but but the unicorn here is 64-byte
exactly likes transactions where there's
enough rent enough bites in the front
for it to decode into a transaction I
haven't encountered a bite I don't think
I've encountered a block so far that is
64 bytes long and has random gibberish
at the front that also decodes as a
block as a transaction that would be
surprising but it is entirely possible
given randomness of numbers so that's
annoying and then what else is there oh
yeah no my other my other unicorn is
more of a formatting thing where I've
discovered blocks that only have a coin
base which I didn't think was possible
but that's exists even later in the tree
later in the chain in the coin bait the
coin basis is the is the thing where the
minor awards come come in and get
distributed so the minor will take their
cut inside the coin base and they
receive it from the chain in the coin
base so there are some blocks that only
have minor awards and no other real
transactions that but that's not a
that's not really an IPO concern that's
more of a decoding consumer so anyway
that's this this is these are the
adventures I'm encountering and keep on
encountering I've done about half of the
blocks in the blockchain but mostly at
the front half because all this more
novelty introduces over time as as
there's more randomness as the million
monkeys to typing and keyboards in this
thing so yeah lots of lessons in there
but also just want to hear back to
sanity check that I'm not being
completely insane by even attempting
this any questions or comments
exactly yeah so we have four minutes
left is there anything else anyone wants
to share say ask me I'm supposed to mean
do you need to traverse the entire
history can you actually go back you
know 300 blocks or a hundred thousand
blocks and just be contented actually
like we have everyone agrees that that
their earlier schemas are hard to parse
so actually you have it like you know
most of the way done so I don't really
want to talk about explicitly the
purpose of this but let's just say that
it's for archival reasons so the
ultimate game the ultimate purpose here
is to actually decompose these things
into IP LD blocks that we can archive
outside of the Bitcoin network and I
yeah the reason we don't announce is
that I it's part of another effort that
will have its own announcement but it's
it's it's it's already good partly
announced so it's not it shouldn't be so
much but yeah the idea is well and and
Bitcoin is one of these things that is
probably gonna exist for a very long
time because it's like it's like digital
gold like unless there's some major flaw
found that can't be undone
cubby workaround probably gonna be
around for a long time but it's easier
to imagine one of these smaller block
chains disappearing let's say Z cache
which is it's got some really good
properties to it it's very it's a very
useful blockchain but doesn't have that
many users and there could be a point in
the near future where everyone just
turns off their nodes and then all the
data is gone and what we want to be able
to say is well these things existed in
history can we store them so that they
can be historical records that's that's
that's what part of the thinking here so
how can we store them in ways that are
useful to traverse and
maybe it's maybe it's overly ambitious
to say we can store them in in our
conception of what content addressed
blocks should be that's what we're
trying and it's turning out to be an
interesting exercise because another
another alternative would be to just say
well let's just let's just take the
blocks out and store their binary form
in dag PB you know that you could do
that and just say I get any files
yeah but then what's the point of a PA
yeah and and you can't really never get
them very usefully unless you have the
file name which could be the hash and
then that's all you have but yeah this
mostly this is I'm finding this is
useful for challenging and putting
questions to IP LD okay is this
sufficient how how do how are we solving
these problems and what are we doing
that is a significant evolution above
this conception of content dressing and
block chains and all the other things
that Bitcoin brought and tries to use
and it's it's a good exercise all right
so we are running out of time so thanks
everyone for attending and see you all
next week hopefully goodbye everyone
[Music]
you
we are low you don't have more stuff I
want to talk about hmm
for me for me to show still recording
and life for some reason oh it's true